## Dataset
I chose the dataset “Loan Data from Prosper” which contains all information about the loan itself and its borrower data. There are 81 attributes and 113,937 loan records. The main focus of this project is to summarize and understand the relationship of variables have impact on the borrower APR using data cleaning and visualization. 

## Summary of Findings
The variables are selected for data exploration and analysis are Borrower APR, Stated Monthly Income, Loan Original Amount, Prosper Score, Prosper Rating (Alpha) and Term. The main interest variable of this project is Borrower APR. Throughout my exploration, I discovered that there is not significant relationship between Loan amount and stated monthly income with Borrower APR. This is one of the surprise findings because I had assumption before looking into the data that the higher income a borrower has, the lower APR he/she would have since the risk of the loan is more secured with having more money.  However, there are more factors need to be considered besides these two variables alone. The same assumption I had with the loan amount in relation of the borrower APR. The bigger the loan is, the higher APR rate will increase. This logic is based on the risk of the loan in regard of its size. In contrast, the data does shows insignificant correlation of these numeric variables with our interest attribute Borrower APR. There are relationships between Stated Monthly Income and Loan amount with Prosper Score and Rating (Alpha). These two factors proved that they are criteria that the company used to evaluate their score and ranking in risk management.  The higher the score/ ranking of a borrower has, the bigger the loan get approved and the higher income they can generate. The borrower APR inversely proportional to Prosper Score and Rating. The better score/ rating, the less risky of lending money. This factor lowers the rate APR. The loan amount also increases with how long the term is. The longer the term, the bigger the loan gets. ‘HR’ is the only class in Prosper Rating that only has 36 months term. Majority of borrowers fall into class B and C. Borrowers seem to have long term loan more than one year. ‘Full-time’ and ‘Employed’ are the main group of borrowers.  Borrowers with better score tends to have bigger loan amount with lower APR rate. Surprisingly, the relationship between APR and Loan amount turns from negative to slightly positive when the rating at score 10. This could be the bar that the company sets to limit borrowers with high score/rating to borrow more with low interest rate. 
Those group of rating B to AA have lower APR and prefer longer loan term. Their lowest APR is set at 12 months loan because the company tries to make profit from giving loan. Their APR increases with the increment of borrowing term while lower ranking groups (HR to C) has APR decrease with the longer loan term.

## Key Insights for Presentation
The presentation mainly focuses on variables that has impact on the borrower APR. Those final selected variables show correlation with the interest variable and gives us insight from their relationship. The first two charts show the distribution of borrower APR and loan amount variable. Next, finding the correlation between our numeric attributes such as APR, loan amount and monthly income. I also investigated the relationship of all the selected variables with our interest attribute APR. Then, I showed the relationship between APR vs. loan amount with the effect of Prosper Score. Lastly, APR vs. rating was analyzed based on the loan term.

